DATA ITEM DESCRIPTION

1. TITLE

SOFTWARE TEST REPORT (STR)

2. IDENTIFICATION NUMBER

DI-IPSC-81440

3. DESCRIPTION/PURPOSE

3.1 Software Test Report

The Software Test Report (STR) is a record of the qualification testing performed on a Computer Software
Configuration Item (CSCI), a software system or subsystem, or other software-related item.

3.2 Purpose

The STR enables the acquirer to assess the testing and its results.

7. APPLICATION/INTERRELATIONSHIP

7.1 This Data Item Description (DID) contains the format and content preparation instructions for the data
product generated by specific and discrete task requirements as delineated in the contract.

7.2 This DID is used when the developer is tasked to analyze and record the results of
CSCI qualification testing, system qualification testing of a software system, or other testing identified in the
contract.

7.3 Contract Data Requirements List

The Contract Data Requirements List (CDRL) (DD 1423) should specify whether deliverable data are to be
delivered on paper or electronic media; are to be in a given electronic form (such as ASCII, CALS, or compatible
with a specified word processor or other support software); may be delivered in developer format rather than in
the format specified herein; and may reside in a computer-aided software engineering (CASE) or other
automated tool rather than in the form of a traditional document.

7.4 This DID supersedes DI-MCCR-80017A, DI-IPSC-80698, and DI-MCCR-80311.

10. PREPARATION INSTRUCTIONS

10.1 General instructions

a. Automated techniques. Use of automated techniques is encouraged. The term "document" in this DID
means a collection of data regardless of its medium.

b. Alternate presentation styles. Diagrams, tables, matrices, and other presentation styles are acceptable
substitutes for text when data required by this DID can be made more readable using these styles.

c. Title page or identifier. The document shall include a title page containing, as applicable:
document number; volume number; version/revision indicator; security markings or other
restrictions on the handling of the document; date; document title; name, abbreviation, and
any other identifier for the system, subsystem, or item to which the document applies;
contract number; CDRL item number; organization for which the document has been
prepared; name and address of the preparing organization; and distribution statement.
For data in a database or other alternative form, this information shall be included on
external and internal labels or by equivalent identification methods.

d. Table of contents. The document shall contain a table of contents providing the number,
title, and page number of each titled paragraph, figure, table, and appendix. For data in
a database or other alternative form, this information shall consist of an internal or external
table of contents containing pointers to, or instructions for accessing, each paragraph,
figure, table, and appendix or their equivalents.

e. Page numbering/labeling. Each page shall contain a unique page number and display the
document number, including version, volume, and date, as applicable. For data in a
database or other alternative form, files, screens, or other entities shall be assigned
names or numbers in such a way that desired data can be indexed and accessed.

f. Response to tailoring instructions. If a paragraph is tailored out of this DID, the resulting
document shall contain the corresponding paragraph number and title, followed by "This
paragraph has been tailored out." For data in a database or other alternative form, this
representation need occur only in the table of contents or equivalent.

g. Multiple paragraphs and subparagraphs. Any section, paragraph, or subparagraph in this
DID may be written as multiple paragraphs or subparagraphs to enhance readability.

h. Standard data descriptions. If a data description required by this DID has been published
in a standard data element dictionary specified in the contract, reference to an entry in
that dictionary is preferred over including the description itself.

i. Substitution of existing documents. Commercial or other existing documents may be
substituted for all or part of the document if they contain the required data.

10.2 Content requirements

Content requirements begin on the following page. The numbers
shown designate the paragraph numbers to be used in the document. Each such number is
understood to have the prefix "10.2" within this DID. For example, the paragraph numbered 1.1
is understood to be paragraph 10.2.1.1 within this DID.

1.0 Scope.

This section shall be divided into the following paragraphs.

1.1 Identification.

This paragraph shall contain a full identification of the system and the
software to which this document applies, including, as applicable, identification number(s), title(s),
abbreviation(s), version number(s), and release number(s).

1.2 System overview.

This paragraph shall briefly state the purpose of the system and the
software to which this document applies. It shall describe the general nature of the system and
software; summarize the history of system development, operation, and maintenance; identify the
project sponsor, acquirer, user, developer, and support agencies; identify current and planned
operating sites; and list other relevant documents.

1.3 Document overview.

This paragraph shall summarize the purpose and contents of this
document and shall describe any security or privacy considerations associated with its use.

2. Referenced documents.

This section shall list the number, title, revision, and date of all
documents referenced in this report. This section shall also identify the source for all documents
not available through normal Government stocking activities.

3. Overview of test results.

This section shall be divided into the following paragraphs to provide
an overview of test results.

3.1 Overall assessment of the software tested.

This paragraph shall:

a. Provide an overall assessment of the software as demonstrated by the test results in this report
b. Identify any remaining deficiencies, limitations, or constraints that were detected by the
   testing performed. Problem/change reports may be used to provide deficiency information.
c. For each remaining deficiency, limitation, or constraint, describe:
    1) Its impact on software and system performance, including identification of requirements not met
    2) The impact on software and system design to correct it
    3) A recommended solution/approach for correcting it

3.2 Impact of test environment.

This paragraph shall provide an assessment of the manner
in which the test environment may be different from the operational environment and the effect
of this difference on the test results.

3.3 Recommended improvements.

This paragraph shall provide any recommended
improvements in the design, operation, or testing of the software tested. A discussion of each
recommendation and its impact on the software may be provided. If no recommended improve-
ments are provided, this paragraph shall state "None."

4. Detailed test results.

This section shall be divided into the following paragraphs to describe
the detailed results for each test. Note: The word "test" means a related collection of test cases.

4.x (Project-unique identifier of a test).

This paragraph shall identify a test by project-unique
identifier and shall be divided into the following subparagraphs to describe the test results.

4.x.1 Summary of test results.

This paragraph shall summarize the results of the test. The
summary shall include, possibly in a table, the completion status of each test case associated
with the test (for example, "all results as expected," "problems encountered," "deviations
required"). When the completion status is not "as expected," this paragraph shall reference the
following paragraphs for details.

4.x.2 Problems encountered.

This paragraph shall be divided into subparagraphs that identify
each test case in which one or more problems occurred.

4.x.2.y (Project-unique identifier of a test case).

a. A brief description of the problem(s) that occurred
b. Identification of the test procedure step(s) in which they occurred
c. Reference(s) to the associated problem/change report(s) and backup data, as applicable
d. The number of times the procedure or step was repeated in attempting to correct the
   problem(s) and the outcome of each attempt
e. Back-up points or test steps where tests were resumed for retesting

4.x.3.y (Project-unique identifier of a test case).

a. A description of the deviation(s) (for example, test case run in which the deviation
   occurred and nature of the deviation, such as substitution of required equipment,
   procedural steps not followed, schedule deviations). (Red-lined test procedures may be
   used to show the deviations)
b. The rationale for the deviation(s)
c. An assessment of the deviation impact on the validity of the test case

5. Test log.

This section shall present, possibly in a figure or appendix, a chronological record
of the test events covered by this report. This test log shall include:

a. The date(s), time(s), and location(s) of the tests performed
b. The hardware and software configurations used for each test including, as applicable,
   part/model/serial number, manufacturer, revision level, and calibration date of all
   hardware, and version number and name for the software components used
c. The date and time of each test-related activity, the identity of the individual(s) who
   performed the activity, and the identities of witnesses, as applicable

6. Notes. This section shall contain any general information that aids in understanding this
document (e.g., background information, glossary, rationale). This section shall include an
alphabetical listing of all acronyms, abbreviations, and their meanings as used in this document
and a list of any terms and definitions needed to understand this document.

A. Appendixes. Appendixes may be used to provide information published separately for
convenience in document maintenance (e.g., charts, classified data). As applicable, each
appendix shall be referenced in the main body of the document where the data would normally
have been provided. Appendixes may be bound as separate documents for ease in handling.
Appendixes shall be lettered alphabetically (A, B, etc.).
